Before we dive into the specific localization algorithms,
let's define the localization problem.
Firstly, there are three different types of localization problems.
These problems are not all equal.
The amount of information present and the nature of the environment that a robot
is operating in determine the difficulty of the localization task.
The easiest localization problem is called Position Tracking,
also known as Local Localization.
In this problem, the robot knows its initial pose and
the localization challenge entails
estimating the robot's pose as it moves out on the environment.
This problem is not as trivial as you might think
since there is always some uncertainty in robot motion.
However, the uncertainty is limited to regions surrounding the robot.
A more complicated localization challenge is called Global Localization,
which you've already seen.
In this case, the robot's initial pose is unknown
and the robot must determine its pose relative to the ground truth map.
The amount of uncertainty in
Global Localization is much greater than that in Position Tracking,
making it a much more difficult problem.
Now, the most challenging localization problem is the Kidnapped Robot problem.
This problem is just like Global Localization except that
the robot may be kidnapped at any time and moved to a new location on the map.
How often does that happen, Karim?
I didn't realize that robot kidnapping is such a common occurrence.
Well, Julia, it's quite uncommon but think of it as the worst possible case.
And as roboticists, we should always design robots to deal with the worst circumstances.
But keep in mind that localization algorithms are not free from
error and there will be instances of a robot miscalculating where it is.
The Kidnapped Robot problem teaches the robot to recover from such instances,
and once again, correctly locate itself on a map.
Doing so is critical to building robot's localization algorithms.